There are the following types of classification of dbms:-

(1) Based on data model----

1:- Relational Data Model:-
In relational data model data are stored in the tables, and these tables have relationship with other tables, kind of we can say they are connected with each other with key ,
for example- In mysql two tables or more tables can have relationship between them with using primary key and foreign key.

In relational Data Model Many constraint can be implemented like-
for preventing storing duplicate data "unique" or "primary key" constraint can be implemented.
or
For avoiding empty column or field not null constraint can be use.

2:- Hierarchical Data Model:-
In hierarchical data model data is stored in such a way that each data element can have one to many relationship

The hierarchy starts from root node and connects all it's child nodes to parent.

Here data is stored like a tree similar to data is stored in our file system of windows,mac or phones.

3:- Network Data Model:-
In Network data model data is stored in such a way that each data element can have one to one or many to many relationship.

It also have hierarchical structure but data is organized like a graph and allowed child nodes to have multiple parents.

4:- Object Oriented data model:-
In Object Oriented data model data is strored in such a way that each data element has "state" and "behaviour".

In this model data element is treated as real world entity.


(2) Based on number of users----


1:- Single user database:-
This type of database is designed for single user only where database has data of only single user.

Only the single user can acces and modify the data , and use it's all the resources,
example of this database is :- personal-computer,moblie-phones and e.t.c.

2:- Multi user database:-
This type of database is designed for multiple users so that it can store data of multiple users and multiple user can acces and modify the data simultaneously and Concurrently.

In Such type of database, the  can be stored on multiple computers or the database can be distributed on multiple computers.


(3) Based on number of Database distribution----


1:- Centralized database:-
In Centralized database the database is stored and maintained from one location only.

The advanatage of this database is that:-
(i) Since all the data is strored on single location the redundancy would not occur.

(ii) Easier to acces and coordinate with data.

(iii) Cheaper than other databases.


The disadvanatage of this database is that:-

(i) Since all the data is stored in single location , if any system failure occur all the data might get lost.

(ii)When multiple users acces the data the speed of acces and modification would go down.